---
title: Looping around in the command line
date: 2018-12-23
---

Bash and ZSH have some looping constructs, like `while` and `for` and even `until`.
These are a bit quirky, but widely used in shell scripts.
Back in summer I was trying to debug pesky, flaky integration tests but I was too busy to write a shell script that would run the way I wanted.
And then I stumbled on [Miserlou/Loop](https://github.com/Miserlou/Loop).

`loop` is a lovely command to repeatedly execute a command with a variety of practical switches, flags, and conditions.

With `--num` you can simply instruct `loop` to run a command a bunch of times:

```bash
loop 'echo "hi"' --num 3
hi
hi
hi
```

If quoting feels annoying (and it often is when you have to mix quotes!) then you can move the command to loop to the and and separate it with `--` from the args:

```bash
loop --num 3 -- echo "hi"
hi
hi
hi
```

For my flaky acceptance tests I wanted to run the command 20 times and then present a summary of successes and failures.
`loop` has a `--summary` flag that will give me exactly that break down:

```bash
loop --num 10 --summary -- npm run accpetance
[...]
Total runs:  10
Successes:   7
Failures:    3 (-1, -1, -1)
```

The parenthesis behind the failures tell you the individual exit codes.
These are particularly helpful if your testing framework reports the number of failed tests through this.

But there is more!

Sometimes you don't know how preciesly how many runs you want.
`loop` has a couple of different conditions for this:

- `--for-duration` to run it for a certain amount of time (_yes, it uses friendly human time representation_)
- `--until-time` if you want to run a command right up to a meeting
- `--until-success` or `--until-failure` when you feel it should work _at some point_ or _fail after a while_.2

You can install `loop` with Rusts `cargo`

```bash
cargo install loop-rs
```

or check the docs for Linux and Mac instructions.

There are plenty more options and flags to experiment with, from traditional `--for` loops to special `$COUNTER` environment variables, so I recommend you check it out!
