---
title: Commit to commiting differently
date: 2018-12-09
---

How can anything new be said about `git commit`?

`git commit -am "..."` is the fastest way to quickly commit currently modified files and walk away. Job done.



Let's break this command down into its two parts:

* `-a`  will add any modified files 

* `-m`  will take the next argument as a message for the commit itself

Combining these two things -- adding files to be commited _and_ commiting them with a message -- are very important for your regular development and should get the time and thought they deserve.

_"Blindly adding"_  changes to be commited means you might commit some change you are not keen on, like that spurious `console.log` or `System.out.println(...)` or that comment that is now outdated `// TODO: this function needs renaming`.  It also means the only context for the message you are about to write is what you have in memory.

I'd recommend using `git commit -v` and taking the time in vim to write a thoughtful commit message.
The `-v` ensures that you can see the changes to be commited in the editor itself.
This also prevents you from repeating the same message multiple times by hitting up-arrow on the command line.


**Extra tip:** Did you know you don't even need to change anyting to do a commit?
`git commit --allow-empty` will create a commit with message and everything, but no actual changes. Its useful when configuring a build server like Jenkins or TravisCi.


**Update from twitter**:

https://twitter.com/rawkode/status/1071825800666771457


https://twitter.com/SamirTalwar/status/1071824596654006272


