---
title: Git to the root
date: 2018-12-08
---

This tip is valuable for people that frequently navigate around in a git repo but want to get back to the root quickly.

We are going to break this trick down, so you can reuse any chunks and tricks for other shortcuts.

The first block we'll need to figure out is where the "root" fo a `git` repo is. Thankfully there is a (longish!) command within git to derive that:

```bash
git rev-parse --show-toplevel
```

That will print the absolute path to the root of our git repo.

A slight catch is that git will error out if it's not in a `git` repo.
So we will also have to find out whether we are in a git repo or not.

`git rev-parse` is still our friend for this, but with a different second argument:

```bash
git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree 2&> /dev/null
```

This will print **true** if we are in a `git` repo or nothing otherwise.

So with that we can tell if we are in a `git` repo and we can find its root or 'top level'.

The last step is to plumb this together in a a bash/zsh function so we can call it from the shell itself.

You'll recognise both of the commands from above with some extra "oddities":

```bash
c () {
	IN_REPO=$(command git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree 2&> /dev/null)
	if [ "$IN_REPO" = "true" ]
	then
		builtin cd -q $(command git root)
	fi
}
```

You may spot that we prefix git with `commnd`. This prevents any aliases or functions to kick in. `builtin` is pretty similar, because we want the real `cd`, not any alias that might have been setup.

If you place that function in your `~/.zshrc` or similar and source it you'll be able to jump to the root of a repo by just pressing `c` and enter.

Enjoy jumping around!
